+++
title = 'Business Relations and Accountability'
draft = true
+++
{{< bg-row class="py-3" markdown=true >}}
## Business Relations and Accountability

Saying that the city has a strained relationship with Valero over the last few years isn’t accurate. The current mayor and supporting councilmembers have created a significant divide in our community. Recognizing this I volunteered as the City’s “At Large” member for our Community Advisory Panel, which helps communicate community concerns to refinery leaders and act as a consensus builder between our citizens and the city’s largest employer and taxpayer. But beyond the fiscal impact Valero has on our community, we must recognize that safety of our citizens is of the utmost importance. That starts with understanding on both sides, Valero understanding our community concerns and working with us to address them and the community understanding how Valero operates and is regulated. To help foster better understanding, I worked with our CAP (Community Advisory Panel) members to make suggestions on topics to be covered in community engagements, as well as edits to our [CAP website](https://www.beniciacap.com/) and [City Fire website](https://www.ci.benicia.ca.us/index.asp?SEC=D47F5F29-2E73-4FBF-88FD-7E5C3827651B&DE=4D69909B-CA9E-4E91-8D11-730A87245D9A&Type=B_BASIC). Last year's cooperation agreement between the City and Valero resulted in additional stationary and mobile source air monitors for our Fire Department. There are still better ways for Valero to improve communication and notification with our community, and I want to help find those solutions. For a few ideas on how to leverage technology and engagement please see my thoughts on [Open Government](https://www.trevormac.com/open-government).

Beyond Valero there are hundreds of local businesses in our community that provide services to our residents and region. I feel often they go underappreciated. From the local barbers, restaurants, bakeries, coffee shops, retail stores, and all the support and services that create jobs in our community, each of our businesses should feel appreciated in our community. As a councilmember I will work with our local businesses to help strengthen our chamber of commerce and improve their presence in the community and with our civic leaders. I will propose a local business priority ordinance to prioritize local business planning application reviews, because if our local businesses want to continue to invest in Benicia we shouldn’t make that difficult. For new businesses we should evaluate a deferred development fee program to help businesses get on their feet. Too often we treat real people like large corporations and don’t realize the significant risk and investment our community members take when investing in our town.
{{< /bg-row >}}