+++
title = 'Development and Planning'
+++
{{< bg-row class="py-3" markdown=true >}}
## Development and Planning

Housing prices and rents are significantly outpacing wages. As a community that has built less than a dozen units in the last few years we can do better. This isn’t a silicon valley problem that is isolated to the highrises of San Francisco and the Peninsula. Our inability to create a business friendly environment, which starts with our City Council, greatly diminishes our ability to provide housing for the next generation of Benicians. When I first moved to Benicia one of the things I was so attracted to, beyond our amazing historic character, is the fact that we have so many multi-generational families in town. Two, three, four generations of families have called Benicia home and they have been able to do that because our housing stock has maintained a level of  affordability for the region. To continue to offer that to the next generation of Benicians we have to continually evaluate creative developments and housing that provide opportunities for our town to grow up within our municipal limits and not out. Having served on our planning commission for the last four years, and helping hundreds of communities across California as an [environmental planner](https://www.linkedin.com/in/planningabetterfuture/), I have leveraged my professional expertise to guide and steer our community through some transformative policy and planning considerations, including our application for SB2 funds to help plan a mixed use corridor at [East Military and Fifth](https://beniciaheraldonline.com/council-moves-forward-on-grant-application-for-affordable-housing/). I hope to bring my planning expertise insight and influence to the future of our community on the City Council.
{{< /bg-row >}}