+++
title = 'Economic Expansion'
draft = true
+++
{{< bg-row class="py-3" markdown=true >}}
## Economic Expansion

As a community we must continually brainstorm ideas to ensure our City's financial well-being. The contributions of our business community are greatly appreciated and essential to Benicia’s future. I meet frequently with business owners to listen to their ideas and concerns about doing business in Benicia. It was during several meetings with business owners, that I began to hear a repeated concern that the explosion in online shopping could have a very negative effect on retail sales in our city. It is well known that brick and mortar stores are closing all over the country. Which is why it’s essential that we continue to hold true to our City identity offering a different retail and dining experience that makes Benicia unique. As documented in our recent downtown parking study, most people come to 1st street for our restaurants, bars, and retail stores; they are the lifeblood to our community’s prosperity. So as a councilmember, I will strive to invent new ways to help create a new and inviting shopping and dining environment in our downtown. By revising and creating new ordinances to allow for creative and compatible uses like parklets, food truck cafes, beer gardens and tasting rooms.

On the planning commission we are working constantly to retain our current businesses and attract new ones to our city. A great example of this is, was the use permit review for Sprankles Deli moving to their new location. Benicia depends on sales tax revenue to maintain our quality of life and city services and it is essential that we do everything we can to support our business sector in this challenging time. This requires a flexible, creative approach and the willingness to listen to our businesses and try new things.

We are faced with a new reality of economic expansion in light of the the global health crisis that is COVID-19. Perhaps most immediately threatened, will be small businesses that focus largely on serving our local community members. Take restaurants. The vast majority of California’s more than 90,000 restaurants are owned and operated by independent proprietors, employing 1.4 million food service workers, according to the [California Restaurant Assn](https://www.calrest.org/news/covid-19-restaurant-letter-governor-gavin-newsom-and-state-legislature). It generates more sales tax ($7 billion annually) than any other industry. Locally here in Benicia we have already felt the economic impact losing a handful or our restaurants and retail businesses. To help tackle this challenge the City hosted a [virtual workshop](https://youtu.be/4mU6gzFOqpo) to gain a better understanding of of the new obstacles COVID-19 will create for Benicia.
{{< /bg-row >}}